# Introduction to operating systems

Common [[OS (operating system)]]s
Main functions of OSs
Relationship between OSs, applications and hardware

Booting the computer activates the [[BIOS (Basic Input, Output System)]] or [[UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface)]] chip

User -> [[Application]] -> [[OS (operating system)]] -> [[hardware]]

The user initiates the process using the relevant application which sends a request to the OS. 
The OS interprets the request and sends it on to relevant components of the hardware.
Hardware completes the processing & sends result through OS back to the application for user to see e.g. CPU calculates operations using ALU & ACC, hard drive is used to store saved files.

Using an OS is similar to ordering food, you place your order and get the food but you don't see the processes in-between the request and delivery.

E.G. downloading a file from the internet
- First, the user decides they want to download a file that they found online, so they click on a download button near the file in the internet browser application.
    
- Then, the internet browser communicates this action to the OS.
    
- The OS sends the request to download the file to the appropriate hardware for processing.
    
- The hardware begins downloading the file, and the OS sends this information to the internet browser application. The internet browser then informs the user when the file has been downloaded.

Applications send requests to the operating system, and the operating system directs those requests to the hardware

[[VM (Virtual machine)]]

[[Random Access Memory (RAM)]]

[[User interface]]

[[Graphical User Interface (GUI)]]

[[Command Line Interface (CLI)]]

# The Linux operating system


[[Linux]]
Debian derived means the parent distribution was debian.
Red Hat derived
Distributions:
- [[Kali Linux]] .free
- Ubuntu - CLI & GUI. Debian-derived. Large number of community resources. Used for cloud computing. free
- Parrot - Debian-derived. GUI & CLI. free
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux - built and supported for enterprise use. Red Hat derived .Uses Red Hat Package Manager (RPM). Dedicated support team for customers to call about issues .Subscription based
- CentOS. similar to Red Hat .Red Hat derived. Uses Red Hat Package Manager (RPM). Doesn't offer the same enterprise support as red hat. Supported through the community. Free.
- 
[[package manager]]s

[[Package management tools]]

A [[package]] is a piece of software that can be combined with other packages to form an application. Packages can be managed using a [[package manager]]. There are multiple package managers and [[Package management tools]] for different Linux [[distribution]]s. Package management tools allow users to easily work with packages through the [[Shell]]. Debian-derived Linux distributions use package managers like dpkg as well as package management tools like [[Advanced Package Tool (APT)]]. Red Hat-derived distributions use the Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) or tools like [[Yellowdog Updater Modified (YUM)]]).

# Linux commands in the bash shell

[[Shell]]
CTRL + A sets cursor at the begging of a command
CTRL + E sets the cursor at the end of a command
Tab autocomplete
Bash is the default shell in most Linux distributions 
[[Linux Commands]]
[[Root user (Superuser)]]
[[Authorization]]
[[Authentication]]

# Databases and SQL

[[Database]]
[[spreadsheet]]

[[SQL (Structured Query Language)]]

SQL offers more structure than Linux making analysing data easier & more time efficient as results are more easily readable.
SQL allows analysts to join multiple tables together when returning data. Linux doesn't have the same functionality as it doesn't allow data to be connected to other information on your computer (more restrictive for an analyst going through security logs).
Some logs may be in a format that is not compatible with SQL e.g. if data is stored in a text file rather than a database it cannot be searched through with SQL therefore Linux should be used to filter instead.
In conclusion, both Linux and SQL allow you to filter specific data but SQL offers advantages of structuring data and allowing you to join data from multiple tables whilst Linux is more compatible as it accepts a wider variety of data formats. SQL can be accessed from multiple interfaces such as the Linux command line & VScode.
