# Asset Security

[[risk]]
Security risk planning:
- [[Asset]]s
- [[Threat]]s 
- [[vulnerabilities]]

[[Asset management]]
[[Asset inventory]]
[[Asset classification]]

[[Data]]
Security teams protect data in its different states:
- In use: Data being accessed by one or more users
- In transit: Data travelling from one point to another
- At rest: Data not currently being accessed (usually on a physical device)
[[Information security (InfoSec)]]
[[Cloud computing]]

Online business creation was complicated and costly due to the creation and maintenance of internal solutions required to operate in the digital marketplace. The cloud solved this issue.
Cloud technologies allow companies to scale and adapt quickly while also lowering costs, however cloud-based services has introduced a range of new cybersecurity challenges that put assets at risk.
[[cloud-based services]]
[[Cloud security]]

Types of [[risk]] categories:
- Damage .
- Disclosure.
- Loss of information.
e.g. can be caused by: physical damage, malfunctions of a device, attacks & human error.
Elements of a security plan:
- [[Policies]]: A set of rules that reduce risk and protect information 
- [[Standards]]: References that inform how to set policies
- [[Procedures]]: Step-by-step instructions to perform a specific security task

[[Regulatory Compliance]]: The process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations

[[NIST Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF)]]

[[risk register (risk log)]]

--
# Protecting organizational assets

[[Security Controls]]
[[information privacy]]
[[Data owner]]
[[Data custodian]]
[[Principle of least privilege (POPL)]]
[[The data lifecycle]]
[[information privacy]] : [[legal regulations]] & [[Regulatory Compliance]]
[[Information security (InfoSec)]]
Privacy is about providing people with control over their personal information and how it's shared. Security is about protecting people's choices and keeping their information safe from potential threats.

For example, a retail company might want to collect specific kind of personal information about its customers for marketing purposes, like their age, gender and location. How this private information will be used should be disclosed to customers before it's collected. In addition, customers should be given an option to opt-out if they decide not to share their data.

Once the company obtains consent to collect personal information, it might implement specific security controls in place to protect that private data from unauthorized access, use or disclosure. The company should also have security controls in place to respect the privacy of all stakeholders and anyone who chose to opt-out.

Privacy and security are both essential for maintaining customer trust and brand reputation.

Why privacy matters in security:
The more data is collected, stored and used the more vulnerable it is to breaches and threats.
Many companies are known for storing user data to personalise advertising e.g. YouTube , twitter, TikTok.
[[legal regulations]]

Meeting compliance standards is usually a continual, two-part process of security audits and assessments:
- A [[security audits]] is a review of an organization's security controls, policies and procedures against a set of expectations
- A security assessment is a check to determine how resilient current security implementations are against threats. ([[Security Assessment and Testing]])
E.G. if a regulation states MFA must be enabled on all administrator accounts, an audit might be conducted to check those user accounts for [[Regulatory Compliance]]. After the [[security audits]](-s), the internal team might perform a security assessment that determines many users are using weak passwords. Based on their assessment, the team could decide to enable [[MFA (Multi-factor authentication)]] on all user accounts to improve their overall [[security posture]]

Security Assessments are usually performed more frequently than security audits (once every 3 to 6 months compared to once a year)

Data at rest should be encrypted
Data in transit should encrypt it using [[TLS (Transport Layer Security)]] or [[SSL (Secure Sockets Layer)]]
Data access should be granted on a [[need to know basis]], if data is accessed temporarily, there should be a record of that access, who accessed it & a justification as to why.
[[PII (Personally identifiable information)]]
[[cryptography]]
[[Encryption]]
[[decryption]]
[[algorithm]]
[[cipher]]
[[cryptographic key]]
[[brute force attack]]
[[PKI (public key infrastructure)]]
[[symmetric encryption]]
[[asymmetric encryption]]
[[OpenSSL]]
[[Kerchoff's principle]]
Most websites use asymmetric encryption to secure small blocks of data that are important such as usernames and passwords while processing login requests however once a user gains access the rest of their web session often switches to using symmetric encryption for its speed.
[[Hash function]]
[[Access control]]

# Vulnerabilities in systems

[[vulnerability]]
[[exploit]]
- [[vulnerability management]]
[[zero-day]]
- [[Defence in depth]]
[[exposure]]
- [[Common Vulnerabilities and exposures list (CVE list)]]
[[OWASP]]
[[OSINT (Open-source Intelligence)]]
[[intelligence]]
[[information]]
[[vulnerability assessment]]
[[Patch Update]]
[[Manual updates]]
[[Automatic updates]]
[[End-of-life (EOL) software]] 
[[penetration testing]]
- [[attack surface]]
[[Security Hardening]]
[[attacker mindset]]
- [[Types of threat actors]]
[[Types of Hackers]]
[[attack vectors]]
[[brute force attack]]
[[USB baiting]]

# Threats to asset security

[[Threat]]
[[social engineering]]
[[malware]]
[[web-based exploits]]
[[threat modelling]]
[[SQL (Structured Query Language)]]
[[threat modelling]]
[[PASTA]]

